So I am going to kind of take
this first spin real quick.
So I have this very kind of
simple example right here.
Where we have of and from, and one of the
reasons we're taking a tour here is you're
gonna try try this out yourself in
a second in a slightly different file, but
kind of walk you through
what we're gonna do here.
One easy way to test observables
is to basically go ahead and
collect them all in an array, right?
So here we have result.
We don't have any code signifying
what would actually happen here.
Again, to use observable,
you can set it up but
nothing happens with an observable
until you subscribe to it.
So observables are effectively lazy.
You can establish when you say this is,
you have 1, 2, 3, 4 but
nothing is happening to those values until
you subscribe to it and then it activates.
And we'll go run through
all of these things.
Each time you subscribe to it, you get
a fresh version of the observable, and
we'll see how to deal with
that a little bit later and
it'll run through each one
of those values, right?
In a case of or from you're gonna
get it either immediately or
in the case of a promise,
when the promise resolves.
Later on when we see intervals and
events and stuff along those lines,
it will be whenever the thing happens.
All right, so what would this look like?
So we could say if we wanted
to use of in this case,
we could say observable.
And I could say of four.
And now clearly that's not gonna
put anything into my result.
So this test would fail
if I ran it immediately.
And so what we need to do
here is say observable and
then we'll subscribe to it and
we'll get each value one by one.
Right?
And this is kinda cool cuz it means
that you can create an observable,
whether it be from a promise from your
API, whether it be from a given event.
And you can separate
the creation of the stream and
what you wanna do with it, right?
Which means you can kind
of create this and yeah,
this is obviously a super simple example.
But you could create this,
export it in a given JavaScript module,
import the idea of creating a stream
multiple places, and then how you use it
throughout your application can vary
depending on what you need to do, right?
So it could be you can have one observable
listening to mouse clicks just on
the document itself, or a keystroke,
or something along those lines.
And different parts of your application,
whether it's dismissing drop down menus or
models or something along those
lines can listen to that one event.
It's not like okay,
cool, this modal loaded.
Let me add and
different parts of your application,
whether it's dismissing drop down menus or
models or
something along those lines
can listen to that one event.
It's not like okay,
cool, this modal loaded.
Let me add an event listener and
clean it up.
When the modal goes away,
I can literally just have this stream and
the subscription is separated from
the creation of the stream itself.
So I can an event listener and
clean it up.
When the modal goes away,
I can literally just have this stream and
the subscription is separated from
the creation of the stream itself.
So I can run this first test.
And see that's running and
this one passes, right.
And again,
from is very similar in this case,
and so we could say observable.
At this point we'll just use
the array instead, right?
And you could write a generator in here.
You could do whatever you want.
We'll just grab this code from up here.
And we'll put the same
values into the array and
this point we will not skip the test.
And we have both of them in place.
So this is the kind of simplest possible
version of this, that we can kinda
use to kinda understand how exactly go
about creating some of these, Mark.
>> For asynch events,
does the expect method
execute before the observable results?
>> Yes [LAUGH].
That is a great segue, right?
So yeah, one thing.
So the question was is for asynchronous
events doesn't just get angry and
ask for some kind of way to
know that we're done doing
whatever we need to do in order to run
the actual expectation ingest, right?
Yeah, just gets angry because
the asynchronous events will happen after
the test close.
So, pop quiz.
An observable,
we have next forgiving event,
we saw that that's what we're
using put things into an array.
What do we have to know when we're
totally done with the observable?
>> Complete?
>> Complete, right?
And so what we could theoretically do here
is if we only care about the next value,
we just put in that function, right?
If we need to wait for the observable
to be done to do something then
we can use complete and
that's when we would run our expectation.
So in here we have an exercise
with creating observables.
And the reason why I love that question so
much is kind of towards the bottom,
we have some situations where
we're creating it from a promise.
So ingest if it is an asynchronous test
you can pass it a done as an argument
in the it statement and then you call
it whenever you are in fact done.